# Year 8: Summer Problems #1

<div class="dictionary">

__Noun__: Parallelogram
__Pronunciation__: /ˌparəˈlɛləɡram/

1. a portmanteau word combining parallel and telegram. A message sent each
week by the Parallel Project to bright young mathematicians.

</div>

This is the first of our six special Summer Parallelograms, designed to keep your maths brain busy over the summer. You can do all the Parallelograms in a day (!), or a week, or you can spread them out across the summer holidays. All six need to be completed by September 1.

Unlike our usual Parallelograms, these summer questions don’t involve any videos. Instead, all the questions have been taken from old Junior Maths Challenge papers. That means none of the questions are easy and some of them will be very tough.

* Start and stop whenever you like – your work will be saved each time.
* But it is better to tackle each Parallelogram in one go.
* Your score, answers and explanations will be displayed as soon as you hit the SUBMIT button.

__IMPORTANT__ – it does not really matter what score you get, because the main thing is that you think hard about the problems... and then learn where you went wrong when the answer sheet appears.



## 9.

::: problem id=9_1 marks=3
In Miss Quaffley’s class, one third of the pupils bring a teddy bear to school. Last term, each boy took 12 books out of the library, each girl took 17 books and each teddy bear took 9 books.

In total, 305 books were taken out. How many girls are there in Miss Quaffley’s class?

* [ ] 4
* [x] 7
* [ ] 10
* [ ] 13
* [ ] 16
{.col-5}

---
Let the number of boys in Miss Quaffley's class be `b` and the number of girls be `g`. Then the number of teddy bears is `1/3 (b + g)`. Also, in total, the boys took out `12b` library books last term and the girls took out `17g` books. The total number of books taken out by the bears was `9 × 1/3 (b + g)` that is `3 (b + g)`.

So `12b + 17g + 3(b + g) = 305`, that is `15b + 20g = 305`, that is `3b + 4g = 61`.

Clearly, `b` and `g` are positive integers. The positive integer solutions of the
equation `3b + 4g = 61` are `b = 3`, `g = 13`; `b = 7`, `g = 10`; `b = 11`, `g = 7`; `b = 15`, `g = 4`; `b = 19`, `g = 1`.

However, there is one further condition: the number of teddy bears, that is `1/3 (b + g)`, is also a positive integer and of the five pairs of solutions above,
this condition is satisfied only by `b = 11`, `g = 7`.

Check: the 11 boys take out 132 books, the 7 girls take out 119 books and the 6 teddy bears take out 54 books, giving a total of 305 books.

_(The equation `3b + 4g = 61` in which `b` and `g` both represent positive integers is an example of a Diophantine equation.)_
:::


***

And that’s the end of the first Summer Parallelogram. Thanks for taking part. Don’t forget to get started on the next one when you have a bit of spare time.

Cheerio,
Simon.

::: submit
