# Pi

<div class="dictionary">

__Noun__: Parallelogram
__Pronunciation__: /ˌparəˈlɛləɡram/

1. a portmanteau word combining parallel and telegram. A message sent each
week by the Parallel Project to bright young mathematicians.

</div>

* Tackle each Parallelogram in one go. Don’t get distracted.
* When you finish, remember to hit the SUBMIT button.
*	Finish by Sunday night if your whole class is doing parallelograms.

__IMPORTANT__ – it does not really matter what score you get, because the main thing is that you think hard about the problems... and then examine the solution sheet to learn from your mistakes.


## 1. Dihydrogen Monoxide

Here is an important video about the chemical dihydrogen monoxide.  

@[youtube](TFI_cufxcgo?rel=0) _(If you have problems watching the video, right click to open it in a new window)_  

::: problem id=1_1 marks=2
__1.1__ Should you sign a petition to ban dihydrogen monoxide?

* [ ] Yes, ban it.
* [x] No, don’t ban it.
* [ ] Not sure – I need more information.
{.col-5}

---

You might need more information, but you really should know that dihydrogen monoxide is simply water, H<sub>2</sub>0. If you’re confused, then just rewatch the video above (everything is true) or this other video.

@[youtube](HbPR4yqf7dU?rel=0) _(If you have problems watching the video, right click to open it in a new window)_  
:::


## 2. Intermediate Maths Challenge Problem (UKMT)
<!--- (1999) Q01 --->

::: problem id=2_1 marks=3
__2.1.__ Which of these numbers is biggest?

* [ ] `19 × 99`
* [ ] `199 × 99`
* [x] `199^9`
* [ ] `1^9 × 9^9`
* [ ] `1^999`
{.col-5}

---

`19 × 99` and `199 × 99` are both less than `199^2` and hence less than `199^9`; `9^9 < 199^9`; `1^999 = 1^9 = 1`.
:::


## 3.	Intermediate Maths Challenge Problem (UKMT)
<!--- (1999) Q11 --->

::: problem id=3_1 marks=4
__11.1__ "20% off everything", screamed the sale poster. I paid £60. What would I have paid before the sale?

* [ ] £60
* [ ] £66
* [ ] £72
* [x] £75
* [ ] £80
{.col-5}

---

Let the original price be £`x`. Then 0.8`x` = 60, therefore `x` = 60 ÷ 0.8 = 75.
:::


## 4.	Staggering Pi Phenomenon 	

This is one of the most shocking videos I have ever seen. Watch in awe.

@[youtube](HEfHFsfGXjs?rel=0) _(If you have problems watching the video, right click to open it in a new window)_  

::: problem id=4_1 marks=4
__4.1__ If the small block is 1 Kg, and you want to calculate 3 digits of π, then what mass would the large block have to be?  

* [ ] 1 Kg
* [ ] 10 Kg
* [ ] 100 Kg
* [ ] 1 tonne
* [x] 10 tonnes
{.col-5}
:::

::: problem id=4_2 marks=4
__4.2__ If the small block is 1 Kg, and you want to calculate 20 digits of π, then what mass would the large block have to be?

* [ ] Same as the Moon
* [ ] Same as the Earth
* [ ] Five times the mass of the Sun
* [x] Ten times the mass of a supermassive black hole   
* [ ] Twice the mass of the universe

---

All the answers are in the video, but if you want to know more, if you want to know why, then watch this follow-up video... it is hard, but worth a look if you are curious.  

@[youtube](jsYwFizhncE?rel=0) _(If you have problems watching the video, right click to open it in a new window)_  
:::


## 5. Intermediate Maths Challenge Problem (UKMT)
<!--- (1999) Q21 --->

::: problem id=5_1 marks=5
__5.1__ When exactly is the value of the product `(1 + 1/2)(1 + 1/3)(1 + 1/4)` ... `(1 + 1/n)` equal to an integer?

* [x] when `n` is odd
* [ ] when `n` is even
* [ ] when `n` is a multiple of 3
* [ ] always
* [ ] never
{.col-3}

^^^ hint id=5_1 marks=1
The product = `3/2 × 4/3 × 5/4 × 6/5 ×` ... `× (n + 1)/n`.
^^^

---

The product = `3/2 × 4/3 × 5/4 × 6/5 ×` ... `× (n + 1)/n`. The numerator of each fraction except the last cancels with the denominator of the next fraction, leaving `(n + 1)/2`. This is equal to an integer only when `n` is odd.
:::


## 6. Riddle

::: problem id=6_1 marks=3
__6.1__ Two mothers and their two daughters go out for lunch. They order 6 slices of pizza and can share the slices equally between them. How?

* [ ] There is only one mother.
* [ ] There is only one daughter.
* [x] There is a grandmother in the group  
* [ ] There are six people altogether
* [ ] They are one person

---

If we have a grandmother and a daughter and a grand-daughter, then we have two mothers and two daughters, but only three people.
:::


## 7. Parallel emails

If you use Parallel on an email address from your school, some school IT systems prevent you from receiving the emails we send out to remind you when a new Parallelogram is released, or when we have another exciting and nerdy maths thing to tell you about. To avoid this, you could give us a different email address we can contact you on - either a personal email address, or one for you parents or guardian. If you'd like to do that, [you can put it in this form](https://landing.mailerlite.com/webforms/landing/k6y9h6){target="_blank"}, but please ask a parent first if you are not yet 13 years old.

::: problem id=7_1 marks=1
__7.1__ If you do want to give us an alternate email address, be sure to click the link above (if you haven’t already). Either way, here's a free mark, just for being a fan of Parallel.

* [x] Thank you!
:::

There will be more next week, so check your email or return to the website on Thursday at 3pm.  

In the meantime, you can find out your score, the answers and go through the answer sheet as soon as you hit the SUBMIT button below.

When you see your % score, this will also be your reward score. As you collect more and more points, you will collect more and more badges. Find out more by visiting the Rewards Page after you hit the SUBMIT button.

It is really important that you go through the solution sheet. Seriously important. What you got right is much less important than what you got wrong, because where you went wrong provides you with an opportunity to learn something new.

Cheerio,
Simon.
