# Welcome!

Hello Rookie Mathematician, and welcome to the Parallel Project.

In order to get on this email list, you must be a mega-keen mathematician. You
might be in the Top-Top Set, your teacher or parent might have recommended you,
or you might have hacked into our mailing list, in which you clearly have the
right sort of enthusiasm (put perhaps not the right morals) to be part of the
project.

The good news is that each Friday at 4pm, for the next four weeks, I am going
to email you a Parallel Challenge.

It should take 60 to 90 minutes to complete. You have until 8pm on Sunday to
complete the challenge.

Why are challenges called ‘parallel’? Well, parallel lines don’t cross over –
check with Euclid if you don’t believe me – and in general the challenges that
I set you will not cross over with what you are doing in school. These maths
challenges are going to involve ideas that are in the Wild West of numbers, in
the wilderness of wild geometry or in the Badlands of binary.

You are going to be entering a peculiar Numberverse, and some of the puzzles,
riddles and problems that you encounter will make your brain ache. But don’t
worry, doing real maths means meeting difficult ideas and having to wrestle
with them. If too many of you find the challenges too easy, then I am doing
something wrong. At the same time, I think you will be able to do most of the
challenges, otherwise you would not be on my list. 

What will the challenges look like? Be prepared for anything. There will be
paradoxes, history, videos, songs, online articles, online lectures, deep maths,
weird maths, funny maths and sometimes some more familiar maths.

What do you do if you get stuck? First, you try harder. Second, you try
different, Third, you try until it hurts. However, I am not cruel, so there
will be hint buttons if you are really stuck, and you can also talk to your
classmates.

Moreover, there will be an online tutorial session at 7pm on Sunday if you are
looking for clues and hints, and another tutorial at 9pm to discuss answers.
During the tutorial, you will be online with about hundred other students, so
please don’t all shout at once.

Finally, once you get back to school on Monday, you can always ask your teacher
if something confused you or if there is something that you just want to chat
about. Your first maths lesson of the week might start with a 15 minute review
of the previous weekend’s Parallel Challenge.
